I went to see the man who was responsible for their philanthropy.
I guess his name was Leonard Gens, and he had an office in New York, and he was a very nice man.
And he asked me a lot of hard questions, and I would say two or three times,
I can't answer that, but I'll find out the answer for you.
So when I got back, I said to David Murphy, I got to know everything.
I got to know how many students are there, how many men, and how many women, and how many are on scholarship, and how much financial aid we give, and I have to know all kinds of things like that.
So again, I went through a course of sprouts.
I set myself out to try not to...
ever be asked a question I couldn't answer.
And that stood me in good stead, and I knew quite a lot, learned quite a lot from that.
And where did we start with?
I guess we were talking about— I think I asked vaguely about the fourth phase, and you said, no, there are three, I think, is what you said.
Well, if there is a fourth phase, it is going to be to try to put down on paper some of the things that I feel... I would like to see Clark put in a course of some sort.
First, I would like to see a group of people get together and discuss on the basis of what leadership is and can it be thought.
And then I would like to see what I've
said in the book in the beginning, something worked out, and other places do it, and Clark wouldn't be the first, to try to address the emotional, personal sides of people, of students.
And I can illustrate this, and I'm always looking for illustrations so that I can put this across, because
A handful of people know what I'm talking about, but not enough.
And I heard this just the other day, to do with fundraising, because I'm in close touch with this fundraiser all the time.
We have a new person who I have not yet met, who talked with, and this is secondhand, and I'm also not willing to be quoted, he talked with a
a student of Clark whose father has a great deal of money and he's an only child.
And we would like to be able to eventually solicit the father for help with Clark.
The son has a good experience and it's amazing what, it's amazing the number of Clark students that feel that what they got at Clark has made their lives only.
It is an extraordinary place.
It's extraordinary because of the loyalty of everybody.
It goes right down from the president to the people that clean the dormitories.
It goes right through the organization in spite of everything.
We had a digression again.
We had a trustee who was James Byatt Coleman, professor of the kind of behavioral...
I've forgotten what this title is, of whom I'm liked and abiding very much.
He was on one of the committees that was searching for one of the presidents, and he made a statement to me.
He said, the fierce loyalty of the faculty to Clark University is astounding.
He said, it doesn't exist at Harvard.
And he said, that's true of students, too.
It's remarkable.
I think it's true of you.
I think it's true of you as well.
Well, I think it is.
It's an extremely good school.
A lot better at Bernhardt in some ways.
Well, it's small, which is nice.
Yes, it is.
And now where did this start from?
Oh, yes.
So at any rate, this new staff member went to the son and asked him to talk about various things.
Did he find it difficult because he was an only child?
And did he find it difficult because his father had so much money?
What did he think about Clark?
Working up to the fact that sometime we would like to have his advice, which he'd be
how would he feel about soliciting his father?
And that makes him look at himself and see what his hang-ups are.
You've all got them.
And that, I think, is a very important thing.
And we could save people a lot of grief.
People could come out of college eventually at the place where I am now.
It's taken me
some 80 years to get who I am now and my feelings about people and what's important and what's not and what is integrity and how I feel about people.
That's a wonderful quote, by the way.
I love that particular quotation right here.
That's very nice.
What was that?
It's taken me 80 years to get how you feel about people.
I see statements in terms of quotations, by the way, and I've helped
and how we'll use them.
Life has been an education.
Education isn't bounded by four years.
We should reflect on the word commencement.
When somebody gets a degree, they begin.
A commencement doesn't mean an ending, it means a beginning.
That's a very interesting use of that word, if you think about it.
Commencement exercises means beginning.
Now we start.
Yes.
And I guess education for you has been a lifelong activity.
It ought to be for everybody.
And this is what, this Clark articulates this very well, is that they want to create lifelong learning.
And that means to examine some of your prejudices and some of the things that you... For instance, I have no trouble with people who are not married
living together, if it was done for a purpose.
I'm facing this with my grandchildren all the time, because this was unheard of in my day, with anybody who had lived with anybody before he got married.
I'm strictly, Alison.
It was unheard of in my day.
Exactly.
Well, this is something that
Intellectually, I condone in special circumstances, not in an escape and jumping from one person to another and that kind of thing, but with a serious, do I want to make this commitment?
How can I relate to this man that I'm thinking of marrying and so forth and so on?
Intellectually, it doesn't bother me.
Emotionally, I couldn't do it myself.
I couldn't think of doing it.
I have to say that I'm kind of a conservative on this.
I look at what's happening in society, these children in the ghettos who have never known a father.
And so where do they turn to for role models, to games?
And I'm just afraid that so much of the breakdown in society today is due to this relaxation of
Oh, well, of course it is.
Of course it is, because our grandchildren, I'd really like to show you a letter, I won't do it now, that our oldest grandson wrote after he had been here for his grandfather.
It's a toast that he made for his grandfather for his birthday, and a toast that he made for me at my birthday.
And it's not a dry eye in the house after reading it, as Bob Hoyt used to say.
But...
there's a basis to that.
I think, for instance, I wonder if there's the African tribe, how they, because that system used to work well before we interfered with it, the tribal systems in Africa, how that relates to the family and whether it supersedes the family or whether it reinforces the family or whatnot.
I'm all for the family and for stability and that kind of thing.
And I certainly, I don't think any teenager has any business having a baby.
And I don't think just experimenting with sex, as you would with Chinese cooking, is right at all.
I'm conservative from that point of view.
But there are extenuating circumstances.
I think what I'm trying to say is... I think what you were saying, let me interrupt, is that in terms of exploring...
the viability of relationships, I guess, is what you're saying.
Yes, yes.
And if you can't do it, well, here's one young person that I happen to know about, two friends of my grandfather's, who, after quite a long time, I think is living with a boy that she's been interested in.
I think they're very fond of each other, but I don't think that
They feel either one of them.
Neither one of them has a job, and neither one of them is ready to get married or take on that kind of responsibility.
But they offer so much to each other that it's foolish not to, from their point of view, not to see whether that relationship is going to be an enduring one.
Because I think it seems so easy to get divorced.
It's another thing that is too bad.
You make a commitment or you don't make a commitment.
I'm going to ask you maybe one or two more questions, because I don't want you to get tired and weary, and I'd like to assess the material and maybe come back and go over a few more points.
But this is the 25th anniversary, of course, year of the Goddard Library.
And I wondered, how do you feel when you look at the library?
How did you feel a sense of accomplishment?
Because it is a monument in a way, isn't it?
Yes, I suppose so.
I don't think I've ever thought of it that way.
It was a project, and it was done satisfactorily, I guess.
A library is the lifeblood of an institution.
I guess we should say that and acknowledge that.
College really revolves.
I mean, Harvard began with a gift of books.
John Harvard gave his books.
That's what he gave.
And half his estate, which was modest, but, you know, when you think of Harvard, he gave his book.
A library, really, isn't it?
Oh, yeah.
I guess I'm looking for some kind of a philosophical thought on that, if you have one.
I don't think about it that way.
I think about how it works, and how it works better,
brought it up to date and what John Johansson is going to think of it when he sees some of the things that I think was going to close in eventually that walk through that wind tunnel that was designed so that the snow block would go right through there and that it would be a gathering place rather than a wall of china that people had to go around from all parts of the campus.
That's why that was left open underneath there.
It's not terribly practical.
And in a sense, then, it's more of a pragmatic view.
This is something that had to be done.
You said you saw a place that needed help, and that's essentially satisfaction, I guess, that... Yes, I guess so.
You perceived the need, and you set about doing it.
And there it is, and it's a wonderful... Well, I think I'd made a mistake, and it was wrong.
You didn't need a library or whatever else you wanted to talk about.
Supposing I, which I did not do, and I don't know why, back a president, an incoming president that I didn't, I made a mistake and held out for it somebody that turned out to be a disaster.
I've often thought about that.
How do you reconcile that?
You think about it, you think very carefully about how do you really know a person?
It's like marriage a little bit.
The best marriage that we have is Dick Traynor with Clark University.
We are so lucky to have him because they complement each other.
His ideas for Clark are what Clark is all about.
And he can do it.
Just as a point, back when you mentioned the word marriage, when were you with Milton married, by the way?
What year?
1936, Friday the 13th.
Friday the 13th?
Yeah.
13 is my lucky number.
I think it's my lucky number.
My daughter, my first daughter, was born in the 13th.
Really?
Is it lucky for her?
Lucky for her.
She was born on the 13th hour of the 13th.
That's 1300, I remember.
That was my old Navy number.
It's been lucky for her and lucky for us.
Oh, it's a very lucky number.
I love it.
I really do.
I've made it my lucky number.
It's interesting how many times that we have, the night before we were married, we had a dinner at the hotel of the village in Great Barrington, where I lived, and this Milton took me home and let me out at the
At our house, after the party, his indicator turned to 13,000 miles on his car.
And he set the inn, as a lot of the wedding guests did.
His room was number 13.
And when I was showing horses, I never lost a crash if I had number 13, no matter what the horse did.
I think we should perhaps end it on that.
Yes.
I think we've got some things about the library, because I'm a little unhappy still with this being a too personal profile.
It is a too personal profile.
We just made a statement that I'd be certainly willing to do, you say, what you've learned from Clark.
But I think we covered those things.
Yes.
So that it just isn't a personal puff piece.
I don't write puff pieces.
I'm sure you don't.
That's the worst thing I could think to say about it that would describe what Bob would say quickly, because I don't want to be in the position of, well, who does she think she is?
Well, I'm writing the piece.
Okay.
You know, people can think what they want, and I stand by everything that I write.
I would never write anything that I didn't believe in.
I'm sure you wouldn't.
And as I indicated before, and I'll say it while the tape recorder is running, I will go over this material with you.
A lot of writers don't want to do that.
They think their prose is chiseled in stone and it's sacred.
I believe that writing is an evolving thing.
And if something is wrong, you fix it.
No problem.
I'll shut that off.
How can you say that again?
Could you say that again, do you mind?
For a long time, before I said yes to Milton Higgins, although I was, you know, pleased to be asked, well, I cared enough about him to come and live in Worcester, which seemed to me to be off the beaten track.
And I think my ego depended on, at that time, on my living in some place like London or New York,
here in Paris, or a big city.
And I have found that there are fascinating people everywhere.
I loved living in Worcester.
Where had you proposed to you?
In New York?
That's a whole other story.
It was when I was working in Stafford.
Okay.
Had you spent any time here at all prior to that?
Well, I hardly heard of it.
Yes, but I was being looked over at the same time, and some things I saw I didn't like at all.
But that's another story.
That's another story, yes.
You do write letters to the editor, I guess.
Well, I just started doing that, actually.
This was recent?
Yes, it was quite recent.
What prompted that, occasioned action, I'd say?
frustration and outrage, I think, about something like the Worcester Commons fashion outlet.
That means that Worcester is common and the fashions are common.
It's a terrible name for that kind of thing.
And I asked for the proposal of Mr. Gladys that the
Galleria be turned into a gambling casino.
That's outrageous.
I wrote a letter to the editor about that, which probably had an awful lot of comment on it.
Did you see that one?
I didn't, but I'm going to check it out.
Well, the unfortunate part about that, from my point of view, and this is part of my philosophy, is that the favorable comments, and I haven't had anything else,
have come by telephone, by letter, by speaking about it, by sending me copies and that kind of thing.
They're all from my friends, same kind of people.
I haven't had anything from Shrewsbury Street or the Great Bourke Valley or Plumley Village.
And I think one of the great things about the new mayor, Mariano, is that he grew up in Great Bourke Valley.
If he can
I love a success story, and if he can, if he's big enough for the job, so that he's a role model, whether he likes it or not, and he can be a good one or a bad one, he can make or break a city, even though he has only limited figurehead, I think.
That's very interesting.
Okay.